Adds second batch of NW bugs (#71511)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-15-release-notes.adoc

For more information, see xref:../nodes/pods/nodes-pods-secrets.adoc#auto-generated-sa-token-secrets_nodes-pods-secrets[Automatically generated secrets].

[discrete]
[id="ocp-4-15-ovnic-default-range"]
==== Open Virtual Network Infrastructure Controller default range

> Previously, the IP range `168.254.0.0/16` was the default IP used for the transit switch subnet in the Open Virtual Network Infrastructure Controller. With this update, the `100.88.0.0/16` IP range is now the default IP used. Customers should not use this IP range in their infrastructure network. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-20178[*OCPBUGS-20178*])	

Reviewer: I would go a bit more verbose, as "the IP" is not technically correct. Also active voice is preferable.

Moreover, the IBM SG says about "should": Whenever possible, rewrite in a more direct way. Do not use should to refer to an action that must be performed. For example, when parameters must be reset, write “Reset the parameters” and not “You should reset the parameters”.

So I rewrite without "should" as best I could guess - the final decision is the author's of course

> Previously, the IP range `168.254.0.0/16` was the default IP used for the transit switch subnet in the Open Virtual Network Infrastructure Controller. With this update, the `100.88.0.0/16` IP range is now the default IP used. Customers should not use this IP range in their infrastructure network. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-20178[*OCPBUGS-20178*])	

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, the IP address range `168.254.0.0/16` was the default IP address range that the Open Virtual Network Infrastructure Controller used for the transit switch subnet. With this update, the Controller uses `100.88.0.0/16` as the default IP address range. Do not use this IP range in your production infrastructure network. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-20178[*OCPBUGS-20178*])	
```

[discrete]
[id="egress-ip-azure-private-cluster"]
==== Application of egress IP addresses to egress nodes on private Azure clusters

> In Microsoft Azure setups, there's a limitation where secondary IPs designated as egress IPs lack outbound connectivity. This means that pods associated with these IPs are unable to access the internet. However, they can still reach external servers within the infrastructure network, which is the intended use case for egress IPs. This update enables egress IPs for Microsoft Azure setups, allowing outbound connectivity to be achieved through outbound rules. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-5491[*OCPBUGS-5491*])	

Reviewer: I would suggest: "Microsoft Azure clusters have a limitation where..."

Also consider replacing "IPs" with "IP addresses" everywhere in the files.

For more information, see xref:../nodes/pods/nodes-pods-secrets.adoc#auto-generated-sa-token-secrets_nodes-pods-secrets[Automatically generated secrets].

[discrete]
[id="ocp-4-15-ovnic-default-range"]
==== Open Virtual Network Infrastructure Controller default range

Previously, the IP address range `168.254.0.0/16` was the default IP address range that the Open Virtual Network Infrastructure Controller used for the transit switch subnet. With this update, the Controller uses `100.88.0.0/16` as the default IP address range. Do not use this IP range in your production infrastructure network. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-20178[*OCPBUGS-20178*])

[discrete]
[id="ocp-4-15-egress-ip-azure-private-cluster"]
==== Application of egress IP addresses to egress nodes on private Microsoft Azure clusters

> There is a limitation in private Microsft Azure clusters where secondary IPs addresses designated as egress IP addresses lack outbound connectivity. This means that pods associated with these IP addresses are unable to access the internet. However, they can still reach external servers within the infrastructure network, which is the intended use case for egress IP addresses. This update enables egress IP addresses for Microsoft Azure setups, allowing outbound connectivity to be achieved through outbound rules. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-5491[*OCPBUGS-5491*])

Reviewer: Typo "Microsft". Also maybe replace remaining "serups" with "clusters"?

> There is a limitation in private Microsft Azure clusters where secondary IPs addresses designated as egress IP addresses lack outbound connectivity. This means that pods associated with these IP addresses are unable to access the internet. However, they can still reach external servers within the infrastructure network, which is the intended use case for egress IP addresses. This update enables egress IP addresses for Microsoft Azure setups, allowing outbound connectivity to be achieved through outbound rules. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-5491[*OCPBUGS-5491*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is a limitation in private Microsoft Azure clusters where secondary IPs addresses designated as egress IP addresses lack outbound connectivity. This means that pods associated with these IP addresses are unable to access the internet. However, they can still reach external servers within the infrastructure network, which is the intended use case for egress IP addresses. This update enables egress IP addresses for Microsoft Azure clusters, allowing outbound connectivity to be achieved through outbound rules. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-5491[*OCPBUGS-5491*])
```

Reviewer 2: This seems like KI rather than a  Notable technical change.

Author: Actually moved it back to bugs. It was resolved though, but after reading back through the Jira ticket felt it was more in line with a bug.

[discrete]
[id="ocp-4-15-no-strict-limits-variable"]
==== Introduction of HAProxy no strict-limits variable

> * The transition to HAProxy 2.6 included enforcement for the 'strict-limits' configuration, which resulted in fatal errors when 'maxConnections' requirements could not be met. This release introduces a configuration adjustment in response to the transition to the `maxConnections` issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The transition to HAProxy 2.6 included enforcement for the `strict-limits` configuration, which resulted in fatal errors when `maxConnections` requirements could not be met. This release introduces a configuration adjustment in response to the transition to the `maxConnections` issues.
```

Author: I have no idea how this happened

+

> With this update, the HAProxy configuration switches to using `no strict-limits`. As a result, HAProxy no longer fatally exists when the `maxConnection` configuration cannot be satisfied. Instead, it emits warnings and continues running. When `maxConnection` limitations cannot be met, a warning like the following might be returned:

Reviewer: I am not sure what "fatally exist" means here.

Reviewer: Also "a warning like the following example". The use of "following" without a noun is discouraged.

> With this update, the HAProxy configuration switches to using `no strict-limits`. As a result, HAProxy no longer fatally exists when the `maxConnection` configuration cannot be satisfied. Instead, it emits warnings and continues running. When `maxConnection` limitations cannot be met, a warning like the following might be returned:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this update, the HAProxy configuration switches to using `no strict-limits`. As a result, HAProxy no longer fatally exits when the `maxConnection` configuration cannot be satisfied. Instead, it emits warnings and continues running. When `maxConnection` limitations cannot be met, a warning like the following might be returned:
```

> With this update, the HAProxy configuration switches to using `no strict-limits`. As a result, HAProxy no longer fatally exists when the `maxConnection` configuration cannot be satisfied. Instead, it emits warnings and continues running. When `maxConnection` limitations cannot be met, a warning like the following might be returned:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this update, the HAProxy configuration switches to using `no strict-limits`. As a result, HAProxy no longer fatally exists when the `maxConnection` configuration cannot be satisfied. Instead, it emits warnings and alerts while continuing to run; for example, a warning or alert like the following might be returned:
```

* `[WARNING] (50) : [/usr/sbin/haproxy.main()] Cannot raise FD limit to 4000237, limit is 1048576.`
* `[ALERT] (50) : [/usr/sbin/haproxy.main()] FD limit (1048576) too low for maxconn=2000000/maxsock=4000237. Please raise 'ulimit-n' to 4000237 or more to avoid any trouble.`
+

> To resolve these warnings, we recommend specifying `-1`, or `auto`, for the `maxConnections` field when tuning an IngressController. This choice allows HAProxy to dynamically calculate the maximum value based on the available resource limitations in the running container, which eliminates these warnings.

Reviewer: I would remove the commas around "or auto"

+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> * The 'strict-limits' setting is not configurable by end users and remains under the control of the HAProxy template.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 The 'strict-limits' setting is not configurable by end users and remains under the control of the HAProxy template.
```

====
+

> (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-21803[*OCPBUGS-21803*])

Reviewer 2: I don't love this here, but I have no suggestion on where to put it. Sorry.

* Previously, a race condition occurred between the handling of pods that had been scheduled and the pods that had been completed on a node when OVN-Kubernetes started. This condition often occurred when nodes rebooted. Consequently, the same IP was erroneously assigned to multiple pods. This update fixes the race condition so that the same IP is not assigned to multiple pods in those circumstances. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-16634[*OCPBUGS-16634*])

* Previously, there was an error that caused a route to be rejected due to a duplicate host claim. When this occurred, the system would mistakenly select the first route it encountered, which was not always the conflicting route. With this update, all routes for the conflicting host are first retrieved and then sorted based on their submission time. This allows the system to accurately determine and select the newest conflicting route. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-16707[*OCPBUGS-16707*])

> * Previously, when a new ipspec-host pod was started, it would clear or remove the existing XFRM state. Consequently, it would kill existing north-south traffic policies. This issue has been resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-19817[*OCPBUGS-19817*])	

Reviewer: I would suggest using monospace for `ipspec-host`. I am also not sure if "kill policies" is the accepted word usage (one normally kills processes in Unix, and I's expect "remove" to be uses with policies), but I can't be sure here.

* Previously, the `ovn-k8s-cni-overlay, topology:layer2` NetworkAttachmentDefinition did not work in a hosted pod when using the Kubevirt provider. Consequently, the pod did not start. This issue has been resolved, and pods can now start with an `ovn-k8s-cni-overlay` NetworkAttachmentDefinition. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-22869[*OCPBUGS-22869*])	

> * Previously, the Azure upstream domain name server (DNS) did not comply with non-EDNS DNS queries because it returned a payload larger than 512 bytes. Because CoreDNS 1.10.1 no longer uses EDNS for upstream queries and only uses EDNS when the original client query uses EDNS, the combination would result in an overflow `servfail` error when the upstream returned a payload larger than 512 bytes for non-EDNS queries using CoreDNS 1.10.1. Consequently, upgrading from {product-title} 4.12 to 4.13 led to some DNS queries failing that previous worked.

Reviewer: As DNS is expanded, I suggest expanding EDNS on first usage as well. EDNS is less well-known than DNS.

Reviewer: Also it should be "that previously worked" - the "ly" is missing

+

> With this release, instead of returning an overflow `servfail` error, the CoreDNS now truncates the response, indicating that the client try again in TCP. As a result, clusters with a non-compliant upstream now retry with TCP when experiencing overflow errors. This prevents any disruption of functionality between {product-title} 4.12 and 4.13. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-27904[*OCPBUGS-27904*]) (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-28205[*OCPBUGS-28205*])

Reviewer: I'd use "indicating that the client can try again" or "requesting that the client try again", depending on the intended meaning.

* Previously, a race condition occurred between the handling of pods that had been scheduled and the pods that had been completed on a node when OVN-Kubernetes started. This condition often occurred when nodes rebooted. Consequently, the same IP was erroneously assigned to multiple pods. This update fixes the race condition so that the same IP is not assigned to multiple pods in those circumstances. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-16634[*OCPBUGS-16634*])

* Previously, there was an error that caused a route to be rejected due to a duplicate host claim. When this occurred, the system would mistakenly select the first route it encountered, which was not always the conflicting route. With this update, all routes for the conflicting host are first retrieved and then sorted based on their submission time. This allows the system to accurately determine and select the newest conflicting route. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-16707[*OCPBUGS-16707*])

> * Previously, when a new `ipspec-host` pod was started, it would clear or remove the existing XFRM state. Consequently, it would remove existing north-south traffic policies. This issue has been resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-19817[*OCPBUGS-19817*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, when a new `ipspec-host` pod was started, it would clear or remove the existing `XFRM` state. Consequently, it would remove existing north-south traffic policies. This issue has been resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-19817[*OCPBUGS-19817*])
```

Reviewer 2: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/ip-xfrm.8.html#:~:text=%5B%20OPTIONS%20%5D-,xfrm,-%7B%20COMMAND%20%7C 🤷
